howdy there internet people it's Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
ms-13 we need to talk about in this 13
because it has become the boogeyman
that's why we got to build the wall so
let's talk about the boogeyman now what
I'm saying here by calling them that
that is not to downplay their
viciousness or their propensity for
violence or how efficient they are but
it might be important to understand how
they came to be so in order to
understand that we got to go back to
1979 in 1979 there was a coup in El
Salvador US government backed it it
triggered a decade-long Civil War that
civil war created a bunch of refugees
those refugees wound up in California in
California they found themselves to be a
minority among immigrants so they all
hung out together kind of safety in
numbers type of thing of course just
like with all other minority immigrant
groups that turned into a street gang
ms-13 was born and it was a street gang
not a big deal then two things happened
first was that the civil war in El
Salvador ended and we sent a bunch of
them home ok and that sounds like not a
big deal except for the fact that part
of the peace deal was that the
government down there could no longer
use the army as police and they didn't
have any police departments so we sent a
bunch of gang members to a country with
no police so of course they carved it up
and grew in power very very quickly they
didn't have any opposition and then
something else happened
Satan showed up Satan was his nickname
his real name was ernesto Darris and
this man was brilliant not applauding
what he did with his brilliance but he
was brilliant he understood logistics he
understood the importance of training he
understood the importance of discipline
he understood tactics weapons how to
strike fear into the heart of a
community
he understood interrogations he
understood everything that we taught him
and by we I mean the US military the
leadership the person that turned who's
credited with turning ms-13 from a minor
street gang into a transnational
criminal enterprise is a guy the US
military trained now records are fuzzy
we aren't certain of whether or not he
was trained in El Salvador or he went to
the school of Americas if you don't know
what the school of Americas is it is a
facility that the US government runs now
the school of Americas closed of course
but it has been renamed the Western
Hemisphere Institute for Security and
Cooperation something like that an
organization with the same mission still
exists so and this this place if you
look at the graduates of this school you
will find out that they're linked to
pretty much every horrible thing that
has ever happened in Central America in
the last 50 years
everything from the assassination of
priests to the disappearance of
journalists mass executions it's really
bad and they were all trained by the US
military so now we're it isn't certain
that he attended the campus in Panama he
may have gotten the training as like a
pop-up satellite campus in El Salvador
their records aren't really clear on
that but to recap the us back to coup
and triggered a civil war the gang was
founded in the United States it grew in
power because of the United States has
moved to push a bunch of them to a
country with no police and we trained
the leadership that took it from a minor
street gang in California and turned it
into a
national criminal enterprise they tell
me again why this is the reason we need
a wall ms-13 is an American creation not
just in the sense that it was founded
here but in the sense that every step of
the way it was American foreign policy
that built it maybe a better idea would
be to curtail our foreign policy instead
of building a wall the kind of knee-jerk
reaction that leads people to think oh
we need a wall is the kind of knee-jerk
reaction that leads us to train people
like Satan you know it's funny all these
people want to really strict scrutiny
and very thorough vetting of people who
want to come in and claim asylum and
maybe that's a good idea
but you never hear I'm calling for
strict scrutiny or vetting of those
people that the US military trains to
murder torture assassinate and dominate
a community by fear
that might be a better idea just you
know kind of stop the problem before it
starts anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night